Day 1 Blog Post (#907)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/astro-ecosystem-fund.mdx

Two years ago we had $0 in our Open Collective. Today, we manage an estimated annual sponsorship budget of $178,374.52 USD with over $200,000 in total funds raised.

Reaching this level of sponsorship didn't happen overnight, and it didn't happen accidentally. Our funding is the result of consistent effort and outreach to large sponsors over the last two years. It's one of the less visible projects within Astro that I'm personally the most proud of.

Early on, a group of us also made the decision to form [The Astro Technology Company](https://astro.build/blog/the-astro-technology-company/). The company provides additional full-time resources to the project, which is another reason why we are able to reserve 100% of our sponsorship for our community of maintainers, contributors, and ecosystem builders.

We don't take this unique privilege lightly. Initiatives like the Astro Ecosystem Fund let us leverage this fortunate position to also give back and support other, less-visible open-source projects in our community.

## Support open-source software

<img
	src="https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/dependency.png"

> 	alt={'xkcd comic about open-source dependencies depicting a complex and barely stable structure made out of various sized blocks labeled as "All modern digital infrastructure". A small block seemingly integral to the building's infrastructure is labeled as "A project some random person in Nebraska has been thanklessly maintaining since 2003."'}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	alt={'xkcd comic about open-source dependencies depicting a complex and barely stable structure made out of various sized blocks labeled as "All modern digital infrastructure". A small block seemingly integral to the building\'s infrastructure is labeled as "A project some random person in Nebraska has been thanklessly maintaining since 2003."'}
```

	width={395}
	height={489}
	class="mx-auto max-h-96 max-w-full rounded-lg border border-astro-gray-500"
	loading="lazy"
	decoding="async"
/>

> Open-source software is an essential part of the technical foundation that we all benefit from. Every company who uses open-source software to make money should contribute back their support in some way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open-source software is an essential part of the technical foundation that we all benefit from. Every company that uses open-source software to make money should contribute back their support in some way.
```

[Nicholas Zakas](https://twitter.com/slicknet) (Creator of [ESLint](https://eslint.org/)) has been a huge inspiration for us as well with [his original writing](https://humanwhocodes.com/blog/2022/06/sponsoring-dependencies-open-source-sustainability/) and [advocacy](https://eslint.org/blog/2022/02/paying-contributors-sponsoring-projects/) for a model of redistribution between open-source projects. Just because we're an open-source project doesn't mean that we can't also share our resources with other,  less visible open-source projects and maintainers. 

The Astro Ecosystem Fund is us putting our money where our mouth is. Every Astro user stands to benefit from the work of these future grant recipients, and we're proud to support them.

### Get involved

More information about the Astro Ecosystem Fund — including instructions on how to nominate your favorite Astro ecosystem projects for one of our remaining $10,000 grants  — will be made available in early 2024. Join us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild), [Mastodon](https://m.webtoo.ls/@astro), or our [Community Discord](https://astro.build/chat) to stay informed and learn more about our grant recipients.

> **Interested in supporting our work? [Sponsor us!](https://www.notion.so/Partner-with-Astro-b05cfd5dcf4248dcbea4a2d81554efed?pvs=21)** 100% of funds raised are invested back into the community. Learn more about our approach to open-source funding on [GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/.github/blob/main/FUNDING.md) and browse our fullytransparent project finances on [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Interested in supporting our work? [Sponsor us!](https://www.notion.so/Partner-with-Astro-b05cfd5dcf4248dcbea4a2d81554efed?pvs=21)** 100% of funds raised are invested back into the community. Learn more about our approach to open-source funding on [GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/.github/blob/main/FUNDING.md) and browse our fully transparent project finances on [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/astrodotbuild).
```
